docs(range-calendar): design guidelines (#562)
commercetools/nimbus: packages/nimbus/src/components/range-calendar/range-calendar.mdx

---
id: Components-RangeCalendar
title: RangeCalendar
description:
  Calendar Range display a grid of days in one or more months and allow users to
  select a range of dates.

order: 999
menu:
  - Components
  - Inputs
  - RangeCalendar
tags:
  - component
  - calendar
---

# RangeCalendar

Calendar Range display a grid of days in one or more months and allow users to
select a range of dates.

## Overview

The calendar component is most often used within the popover component when a
user interacts with a date input. Easily toggle, month, year, select a range,

> and include start and end times.

Reviewer: i believe we still need to remove the mentioning of start/end times (unless we want to mention it in a blurb with the picker?). i went to leave a note in figma, but it was already answered [here](https://www.figma.com/design/gHbAJGfcrCv7f2bgzUQgHq?node-id=3552-6340&m=dev#1432536475) 
cc @ellelevy ...oh, also adding related components to THE LIST

## Variables

Get familiar with the features.

### Visual options

#### Date range

Allow users to select a range of dates.

```jsx-live
const App = () => <RangeCalendar aria-label="Enter dates" />
```

## Guidelines

Calendar guidelines focus on creating intuitive and accessible interfaces for
viewing, navigating, and interacting with dates and events.

### Best practices

- **Clear visual hierarchy:** Distinguish between days, weeks, months, and
  years. Highlight the current date and any selected dates.
- **Intuitive navigation:** Provide clear controls to move between different
  time periods (days, weeks, months, years).
- **Easy date range selection:** For applications requiring date ranges, provide
  an intuitive way to select start and end dates, often with visual
  highlighting.
- **Clear labels and instructions:** Provide clear labels for navigation
  controls and any interactive elements within the calendar.

### Usage

A calendar is used to visually display and manage time-based information,
allowing users to view, schedule, and interact with dates. A common way this
component is used is within the popover, and paired with the date input.

> [!TIP]\
> When to use

> - **Scheduling:** When users need to select specific dates and time ranges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Scheduling:** When users need to select specific dates.
```

- **Visualizing time-based data:** To display data or to filter data in a
  corresponding visual.
- **Date range selection:** When users need to select a start and end date for a
  period.
- **Browsing dates:** When users need to navigate through different days, weeks,

>   or months to find a specific date or time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Browsing dates:** When users need to navigate through different days, weeks,
  or months to find a specific date.
```
 or...specific dates?
lies if were just referencing the Range Calendar/ DateRangeCalendar/Calendar Range itself.

- **Contextual awareness of dates:** When the day of the week or the
  relationship between dates is important for decision-making.
- **Recurring events:** To allow users to set up and manage events that repeat
  on a regular basis.

### Keeping interactions simple

Simple calendar interactions are vital because they minimize user effort and
cognitive load, allowing for quick and efficient time management, the calendar's
primary function.

> [!TIP]\
> **Do**
>
> - Provide clear navigation. Make it easy to move between days, weeks, months,
>   and years using intuitive controls (arrows, drop downs).
> - Enable easy date range selection. If your application requires date ranges,
>   make the selection process straightforward (e.g., click start, click end).
> - Consider time zones (if applicable). If your application deals with users in

> >   different time zones, handle and display times accordingly.

Reviewer: @ellelevy now im starting to question myself. i think we should disappear this one (but make sure its on the related picker(s))
